---
title: Why 924 Grand Ave?
order: 3
list-style: call-and-response
---
* Why is 924 Grand Ave a site that you are excited about?
- Our proposed location is already familiar to and trusted by the young people that Y2Y New Haven will serve. At 924 Grand Ave, young people access case management, mental healthcare, support accessing social services, housing, jobs, diapers, and food throughout the day. With Y2Y’s overnight services, young people will also have a safe place to stay throughout the night and have access to a continuity of social services through our 24-hour wraparound service model.
* Are there any other reasons 924 Grand Ave is a good fit?
- Young people tell us that they feel safe at 924 Grand Ave. It’s easily accessible by public transportation and a little removed from downtown, providing privacy to youth.
* Grand Ave has a number of social service programs already on it.  Why are you adding another?
- As a program under Youth Continuum, Y2Y New Haven will be an extension of the Drop-In Center’s current 9 a.m.- 5 p.m hours, which Youth Continuum has run for more than twenty years. The Y2Y New Haven program would extend the Drop-In Center’s operating hours to 24 hours/day and incorporate a student-volunteer presence to provide an opportunity for youth to collaborate with their peers to implement more youth-specific programming and a more welcoming environment.
* Why is extending the program important?
- By extending to a 24-hour wraparound service model, instead of forcing young people out of the space at 5pm, and leaving them with nowhere to go, they would be able to stay in our safe and welcoming space. They would be off the streets!
* Doesn't 924 Grand Ave look a little worn down these days?
- In addition to helping young people get safely off the streets, our renovation will refresh 924 Grand Avenue’s current facade, incorporate natural lighting, and update security lighting to create a welcoming and vibrant addition to Grand Avenue! Our talented team of architects—led by Turner Brooks and Duo Dickinson—are in the initial process of designing a space that reflects these updates.
